Add documentation (#1)
humanmade/platform-multilingual: docs/code-i18n.md

This is done by passing all strings that your custom code outputs through the translation API functions. This is used to both swap your strings for their translated variant at runtime depending on the language of the site, and also be used as markers to generating translation template files (POT files).

Once you have generated a POT file for you custom code, you can provide your translators with these files. Typically programs such as [poedit](https://poedit.net/) are used to author translations.

## Translation API Functions

Whenever you output a string in code, you must use a translation function. HM Platform uses the [WordPress Translation API](https://codex.wordpress.org/I18n_for_WordPress_Developers) to provide code level internationalization (i18n). Translations in code are tied to a "Text Domain" which is an identifier for which translation file should be used for a given translation. It's recommended you use a single translation domain for all your project's custom code. This will mean you only need to get a single POT file translated.

> See [Translatable Strings](https://codex.wordpress.org/I18n_for_WordPress_Developers#Translatable_strings) for details on the functions you should use, depending on context.

Reviewer: Think it's worth adding some recommendations here eg.

- text domain must always be a string, never a constant or variable
- favour translation functions that provide context for strings such as `_x()` to help translators provide the best translation
- always use the `esc_html` prefixed version when outputting text directly

Given the translation functions are pretty stable maybe we should add some code examples (especially for `__()` vs `esc_html__()` or document them directly?

## Generating POT files

Once you have ensured all the strings in your custom code are using translation functions, you must generated a POT file from the codebase. This is done use the cli command `wp i18n make-pot`. If you want to generate a POT file for your whole project:

```sh

> wp i18n make-pot content --domain=<your-text-domain> <your-text-domain>.pot

Reviewer: Might need a little work still but we could bundle either this WP CLI command or one that I started at https://github.com/roborourke/wp-l10n-gen

My one has a bit more flexibility in terms of conversions and output types plus excluding directories like `node_modules` and `vendor`. It can be used to generate `.po` files for each language and then convert them once they've been filled in.

Will be nice to add a build script example though just realised there's no WP CLI during build. Maybe we can make the GNU gettext command line tools available on the build server.

Author: Hmm, why would one run make-pot at build time? You'd then need to somehow get it from the build server and download it anyway

Reviewer: Sorry, to clarify that would be to make `.mo` files from `.po` files at build time but possibly kinda pointless at that stage.

```

> This will place a new file in at the path `<your-text-doamin>.pot`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will place a new file at the path `<your-text-domain>.pot`.
```

## Installing Translated Files

The POT files you create should be passed to yoru translation team. Their translations should be exported as `.mo` files. Each language will have it's own translated file. Copy the `.mo` files to `content/languages/plugins/<text-domain>-<language-code>-<country-code>.mo`. You must also load the `.mo` file via the `load_plugin_textdomain()` function. This can be done from a custom plugin or within your theme.

```php

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Author: Oh really? It looks for that in `/languages` or elsewhere?

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Reviewer: Yeah line 1145 in `l10n.php`, function called `_get_path_to_translation_from_lang_dir()` is eventually called via `translate()` in the `__()` type functions. It checks `WP_LANG_DIR . '/themes'` and `WP_LANG_DIR . '/plugins'` to load just in time #jit

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Author: Hmm I see, the complication with that if they have to put the `mo` files in either the theme, or a specific plugin. If I want to just have a single text domain for my whole project, where should we recommend developer place the `mo` translation files?

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Reviewer: Ok. Perhaps we can duplicate some of that JIT loading code via a filter and recommend a `/languages` directory at the project root? It can be plugin/theme agnostic then.

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Reviewer: You specifically mention the `/languages/plugins` directory above so I'd probably default to that over themes for a potentially widely scoped text domain.

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Author: Ugh I r n00b, totally misread the function!

> load_plugin_textdomain( 'my-text-domain' );

Author: Ok removed!
